content/pages/projects.md, before:

title: Projects

## Active

### The Recon-ng Framework

Full-featured Web Reconnaissance framework for conducting open source reconnaissance.

[http://recon-ng.com/](http://recon-ng.com/)

### HoneyBadger v2

Framework for targeted geolocation and tracking.

[https://github.com/lanmaster53/honeybadger/](https://github.com/lanmaster53/honeybadger/)

### Burp Suite Visual Aids

Series of annotated images depicting usage tips for Burp Suite.

[/burp-visual-aids/](/burp-visual-aids/)

---

## Inactive

### Wi-Fi User Detection System (WUDS)

Proximity alert system based on Wi-Fi probe requests.

[https://bitbucket.org/LaNMaSteR53/wuds/](https://bitbucket.org/LaNMaSteR53/wuds/)

### PeepingTom

Tool for quickly analyzing large quantities of web interfaces.

[https://bitbucket.org/LaNMaSteR53/peepingtom/](https://bitbucket.org/LaNMaSteR53/peepingtom/)

### SharePass

Safe(r) way to quickly share passwords when traditional encryption methods are unavailable.

[https://github.com/lanmaster53/sharepass](https://github.com/lanmaster53/sharepass)

### AdobePW

Python library for analyzing and manipulating the 2013 Adobe breach data.

[https://bitbucket.org/LaNMaSteR53/adobepw](https://bitbucket.org/LaNMaSteR53/adobepw)

### VSSOwn

Script for leveraging Volume Shadow Copies to conduct various security related activities.

[https://github.com/lanmaster53/ptscripts/blob/master/windows/vssown.vbs](https://github.com/lanmaster53/ptscripts/blob/master/windows/vssown.vbs)

### eapmd5crack

Script for cracking EAP-MD5 hashes.

[https://github.com/lanmaster53/ptscripts/blob/master/eapmd5crack.py](https://github.com/lanmaster53/ptscripts/blob/master/eapmd5crack.py)

Commit message:

Added the restmail page and updated the Projects page to reference the new addition.

content/pages/projects.md, after:

title: Projects

## Active

### The Recon-ng Framework

Full-featured Web Reconnaissance framework for conducting open source reconnaissance.

[http://recon-ng.com/](http://recon-ng.com/)

### HoneyBadger v2

Framework for targeted geolocation and tracking.

[https://github.com/lanmaster53/honeybadger/](https://github.com/lanmaster53/honeybadger/)

### Burp Suite Visual Aids

Series of annotated images depicting usage tips for Burp Suite.

[/burp-visual-aids/](/burp-visual-aids/)

### RESTmail.net Web Interface

React driven web interface for the restmail.net API

[/restmail/](/restmail/)

---

## Inactive

### Wi-Fi User Detection System (WUDS)

Proximity alert system based on Wi-Fi probe requests.

[https://bitbucket.org/LaNMaSteR53/wuds/](https://bitbucket.org/LaNMaSteR53/wuds/)

### PeepingTom

Tool for quickly analyzing large quantities of web interfaces.

[https://bitbucket.org/LaNMaSteR53/peepingtom/](https://bitbucket.org/LaNMaSteR53/peepingtom/)

### SharePass

Safe(r) way to quickly share passwords when traditional encryption methods are unavailable.

[https://github.com/lanmaster53/sharepass](https://github.com/lanmaster53/sharepass)

### AdobePW

Python library for analyzing and manipulating the 2013 Adobe breach data.

[https://bitbucket.org/LaNMaSteR53/adobepw](https://bitbucket.org/LaNMaSteR53/adobepw)

### VSSOwn

Script for leveraging Volume Shadow Copies to conduct various security related activities.

[https://github.com/lanmaster53/ptscripts/blob/master/windows/vssown.vbs](https://github.com/lanmaster53/ptscripts/blob/master/windows/vssown.vbs)

### eapmd5crack

Script for cracking EAP-MD5 hashes.

[https://github.com/lanmaster53/ptscripts/blob/master/eapmd5crack.py](https://github.com/lanmaster53/ptscripts/blob/master/eapmd5crack.py)
